Hello teacher, I have a question. I have
many illnesses. How can I improve my health?
Today, I will explain the topic of illnesses
in detail. You
see, on a plot of land,
we plant a potato, which
produces a potato; we plant a chili plant, which produces a chili plant; we
plant an orange tree, which produces an orange tree – all of which have sour, bitter, salty, and sweet flavors. The plant
absorbs water
and transforms it
into the flavors of the fruit, right? It's the same for us
humans. We
breathe the same air, eat the same
food in the same family, but each
person has different illnesses. Is
n't that right? Think of the air and the food
as the land and the
water – they're the same. Why do
people
in the same house, living in a village, have different illnesses?
Some people who don't drink or smoke still get cancer, while others who drink and smoke
never get
cancer. So, what's the cause? The
main contributing factor is still
drinking alcohol and smoking – that's the
primary cause.  The consequences of karma are still the
same, so
where does that come from? For example, you can eat
sprouts, and these sprouts contain
all the necessary nutrients, right? They contain all the necessary
nutrients. But when you eat them,
your body extracts the nutrients, which is
different from what my friends absorb. My body, for instance,
extracts all the iron.
For example, my body needs iron, and
I can extract it all. But
if my body has an excess of
that substance, it doesn't absorb as well. I absorb
less. This is due to karmic merit, isn't it? We
eat from the same food, breathe the same
air, but we get sick
because our karma extracts
nutrients from food or toxins
into our bodies. There are
things beyond
human experience, for example, when
we are born as humans,
our karma is roughly the same, like
from 1 to 10, but
something toxic is too much.  10 means anyone who eats it
will die. Do you understand? Reading it beyond 10
means anyone who eats it will die. It means it
surpasses the karmic control of human beings. That is, no matter
how good a person is, they cannot overcome that
karma. They only reach that level, which is the
human realm. Going beyond 11 means they are
reborn in heaven, and that's the point of the
blessing of being human. But
for the Buddha, eating that would cause
bodily decay; it's a matter of cause and effect, not
death. If A-Lan had asked the
Buddha to remain in the world, even if the Buddha ate
poison, he wouldn't die.
Do you understand? For the Buddhas, it's a matter of cause and effect.
For us, it's karma.
So, to cure illness,
we must remember the method of transforming
karma. When we transform karma,
in this life we ​​will have
stomach pain, but if we practice Karma Transformation,
we can only endure that level of
stomach pain, then take a few pills
and it will go away. But if
this person's karma doesn't transform, then
they can take a few pills and it will get better
this time.  But those pills have a
harmful side effect, and the next time, before the stomach ache goes
away, you take more pills, get more
stomach aches, take more pills, get more stomach aches,
take more pills—that's another karma,
right? But if we change our karma,
the intensity of the
illnesses we suffer will decrease
because our karma has changed. So,
all Buddhist disciples, when they get
sick, it means their karma has
changed, and that's fixed karma because
our practice hasn't been enough to
completely eliminate that karma. The
reason you have so many illnesses is
because you have too much bad karma. For example, in your
previous life, you were always organizing fights,
so now you have so many illnesses.
Do you understand this?
Therefore, if you want to reduce
this, you must reduce it by
studying Buddhist teachings a lot. Remember,
karma comes because of
thoughts, words, and actions. If you
continue to kill, you
will be dragged back by your old karma, and you will
continue to speak unwholesome and evil words.  Harming
others will bring back your old karma. If you
continue to think unwholesome thoughts, your old karma
will come back and affect you, causing
you to experience new consequences. But now,
you must think wholesome thoughts, speak wholesome words, and do
wholesome deeds. Then you will
gradually transform those evil karmas.
You should practice charity, make offerings, and release animals.
Those things will bring you
happiness.
[Music]
Oh